feat(curriculum): add intro to node js lessons (#63084)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/lecture-working-with-nodejs-and-event-driven-architecture/68ff6d372ad364f285f0522e.md

---
id: 68ff6d372ad364f285f0522e
title: What are the Advantages and Disadvantages to Using Node on the Backend?
challengeType: 19
dashedName: what-are-the-advantages-and-disadvantages-to-using-node-on-the-backend
---

# --description--

One of the great advantages of Node.js is that you can implement both the front-end and the back-end of a web application using JavaScript. This reduces the initial learning curve because you and your team don’t need to learn new programming languages or switch between them as you work, so you can be more efficient and productive.

> Node’s architecture is another advantage. It has a non-blocking, event-driven architecture that is great for developing real-time applications, where responsiveness and efficiency are essential for creating a good user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node's architecture is another advantage. It has a non-blocking, event-driven architecture that is great for developing real-time applications, where responsiveness and efficiency are essential for creating a good user experience.
```

> This is where the concept of “threads” becomes very important. A thread is a path of execution within a process, like a computer program that is currently running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where the concept of "threads" becomes very important. A thread is a path of execution within a process, like a computer program that is currently running.
```
